user/pages/05.blog/2017-10-23-how-do-you-lower-the-bounce-rate/post.md, before:

---
title: 'How do you lower the bounce rate?'
date: '12/04/2017 13:23'
taxonomy:
    tag:
        - SEO
        - 'google analytics'
        - bouncerate
slug: how-do-you-lower-the-bounce-rate
description: 'And do you have to reduce the bounce rate anyway? Mmm ... that makes it more complicated.'
image: header.jpeg
author:
    name: 'Stephan Moerman'
    bio: 'Chief Technology Officer @ Scope Web'
    image: author-stephan.jpg
    twitter: 'https://www.twitter.com/stmoerman'
cover: a1-bouncerate.jpeg
postimage: postimage.jpg
navcolor:
    -
        navbar-light bg-light
---

# What is bounce rate? The definition.
<br>
If you search for that question, you will find different answers. It used to be said that when a visitor leaves the site after visiting your website without clicking on your website, the bounce rate is 100%. But is that still the right definition? The strange thing is that Google itself also provides such an explanation in analytics. As long as you do not set any goals (events) in your Google Analytics (GA), the above definition applies to the bounce rate. By setting targets, you reduce the bounce rate, because these goals were initially not measured and therefore did not contribute to a clear analysis of visitor behavior.

## The right definition
<br>
The correct definition of the bounce rate is therefore: "a visitor enters a webpage and leaves it without taking any action (which you have set yourself)". That is different from leaving your website after visiting 1 page. And that's right, because a visitor who views a video on your page, makes more of an effort than someone who just looks around and is gone immediately. And someone who stays on a page for longer than 3 minutes also shows a greater commitment than someone who immediately draws his conclusion and leaves your page in seconds. You only need to set it up yourself in Google Analytics.

## So is a high bounce rate bad?
<br>
A high bounce rate does not necessarily have to be bad. Because if your visitor immediately sees the right 'call-to-action' button and clicks through to a linked site, then you have reached your goal, but the visitor has disappeared after your visitor has seen 1 page. Because you can influence the "bouncer" yourself, it is unlikely that Google will use this as a ranking factor. But, collecting backlinks, writing the content, adding the meta tags, does not that affect? We certainly do not know for sure.

## So what is CTR?
<br>
CTR stands for ClickTroughRate. What percentage of your total clicks, via a link in search engines like Google does your website receive. Totally different than a bounce rate. With the bounce rate, visitors come to your website. When it comes to the CTR the question is what percentage clicks through to your website. SEO experts then wonder whether this matches the ranking. So suppose your site is in the top 10, but the visitors click least on your title, because the other companies are better known, for example, or because the titles and descriptions are more attractive (think of reviews), then your website fails on this specific ranking metric. Again, it is difficult to determine what analysis Google uses to determine this. The top 3 in Google gets more visitors anyway, but the top 3 is probably in the top 3 because a lot has been clicked through. As I write this, I try to think clearly and I also wonder what will and will not be taken into account. I would not be surprised if Google 'secret' does everything a bit. They use everything they can measure. But because you can only make a guess about how they measure, in particular the bounce rate, but also the CTR, less account is taken of them than for example the speed of the website (my opinion).

Google denies the use of Google Analytics data (such as bounce rate) for the Google rankings:

<div class="resp-container">
    <iframe class="resp-iframe" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/CgBw9tbAQhU" gesture="media"  allow="encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>


## Meta tags can help
<br>
It is not wrong to spend time on meta tags that draw the visitor's attention. Whether or not the CTR counts; you want potential visitors to click through from Google to your website. Make sure that the visitor of the search engine is interested in clicking through. This can be done by connecting to the right keywords, but also by winning trust: experience, large offers, etc.

## Clear, so how do I lower the bounce rate?
<br>
Normally the bounce rate is between 20 and 50%. The question is whether you should panic if it is much higher or lower, but I can still imagine that you want to lower the bounce rate if it is up to 90%, for example, and visitors do not stay on your website for more than 10 seconds.

Watch this YouTube video where in a very short time some of the later mentioned tips are discussed:

<div class="resp-container">
    <iframe class="resp-iframe" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/8cVUOrsrVIQ" gesture="media"  allow="encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

## Some of our tips:

* Remove spam from Google Analytics and check in analysis which pages generate a lot of visitors and have a high bounce. Remove or improve pages that provide a high bounce;
* Check the broken links on your website. This is something that we carry out as standard for our clients who purchase an SEO assignment;
* Add 301 redirects if necessary;
* Do you have a website with many pages? Then it is recommended to add search functionality;
* Prevent 404 pages and if they exist, provide good informational text;
* Make sure your website is mobile-friendly;
* Provide a fast website;
* Prevent choice stress and make it immediately clear by a good call to action (button) where you want to send the visitor to (e.g. reservation, or subscribe to newsletter, etc.);
* Link on your pages to other internal pages;
* And last but not least: provide good interesting content.

Commit message:

Fixed Meta Description too long issue and URL too long on blog

user/pages/05.blog/2017-10-23-how-do-you-lower-the-bounce-rate/post.md, after:

---
title: 'How do you lower the bounce rate?'
date: '12/04/2017 13:23'
metadata:
    description: If you search for that question, you will find different answers. It used to be said that when a visitor leaves the site after visiting your website without clicking on your website, the bounce rate is 100%. But is that still the right definition? The strange thing is that Google itself also prov...
taxonomy:
    tag:
        - SEO
        - 'google analytics'
        - bouncerate
slug: how-do-you-lower-the-bounce-rate
description: 'And do you have to reduce the bounce rate anyway? Mmm ... that makes it more complicated.'
image: header.jpeg
author:
    name: 'Stephan Moerman'
    bio: 'Chief Technology Officer @ Scope Web'
    image: author-stephan.jpg
    twitter: 'https://www.twitter.com/stmoerman'
cover: a1-bouncerate.jpeg
postimage: postimage.jpg
navcolor:
    -
        navbar-light bg-light
---

# What is bounce rate? The definition.
<br>
If you search for that question, you will find different answers. It used to be said that when a visitor leaves the site after visiting your website without clicking on your website, the bounce rate is 100%. But is that still the right definition? The strange thing is that Google itself also provides such an explanation in analytics. As long as you do not set any goals (events) in your Google Analytics (GA), the above definition applies to the bounce rate. By setting targets, you reduce the bounce rate, because these goals were initially not measured and therefore did not contribute to a clear analysis of visitor behavior.

## The right definition
<br>
The correct definition of the bounce rate is therefore: "a visitor enters a webpage and leaves it without taking any action (which you have set yourself)". That is different from leaving your website after visiting 1 page. And that's right, because a visitor who views a video on your page, makes more of an effort than someone who just looks around and is gone immediately. And someone who stays on a page for longer than 3 minutes also shows a greater commitment than someone who immediately draws his conclusion and leaves your page in seconds. You only need to set it up yourself in Google Analytics.

## So is a high bounce rate bad?
<br>
A high bounce rate does not necessarily have to be bad. Because if your visitor immediately sees the right 'call-to-action' button and clicks through to a linked site, then you have reached your goal, but the visitor has disappeared after your visitor has seen 1 page. Because you can influence the "bouncer" yourself, it is unlikely that Google will use this as a ranking factor. But, collecting backlinks, writing the content, adding the meta tags, does not that affect? We certainly do not know for sure.

## So what is CTR?
<br>
CTR stands for ClickTroughRate. What percentage of your total clicks, via a link in search engines like Google does your website receive. Totally different than a bounce rate. With the bounce rate, visitors come to your website. When it comes to the CTR the question is what percentage clicks through to your website. SEO experts then wonder whether this matches the ranking. So suppose your site is in the top 10, but the visitors click least on your title, because the other companies are better known, for example, or because the titles and descriptions are more attractive (think of reviews), then your website fails on this specific ranking metric. Again, it is difficult to determine what analysis Google uses to determine this. The top 3 in Google gets more visitors anyway, but the top 3 is probably in the top 3 because a lot has been clicked through. As I write this, I try to think clearly and I also wonder what will and will not be taken into account. I would not be surprised if Google 'secret' does everything a bit. They use everything they can measure. But because you can only make a guess about how they measure, in particular the bounce rate, but also the CTR, less account is taken of them than for example the speed of the website (my opinion).

Google denies the use of Google Analytics data (such as bounce rate) for the Google rankings:

<div class="resp-container">
    <iframe class="resp-iframe" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/CgBw9tbAQhU" gesture="media"  allow="encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>


## Meta tags can help
<br>
It is not wrong to spend time on meta tags that draw the visitor's attention. Whether or not the CTR counts; you want potential visitors to click through from Google to your website. Make sure that the visitor of the search engine is interested in clicking through. This can be done by connecting to the right keywords, but also by winning trust: experience, large offers, etc.

## Clear, so how do I lower the bounce rate?
<br>
Normally the bounce rate is between 20 and 50%. The question is whether you should panic if it is much higher or lower, but I can still imagine that you want to lower the bounce rate if it is up to 90%, for example, and visitors do not stay on your website for more than 10 seconds.

Watch this YouTube video where in a very short time some of the later mentioned tips are discussed:

<div class="resp-container">
    <iframe class="resp-iframe" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/8cVUOrsrVIQ" gesture="media"  allow="encrypted-media" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

## Some of our tips:

* Remove spam from Google Analytics and check in analysis which pages generate a lot of visitors and have a high bounce. Remove or improve pages that provide a high bounce;
* Check the broken links on your website. This is something that we carry out as standard for our clients who purchase an SEO assignment;
* Add 301 redirects if necessary;
* Do you have a website with many pages? Then it is recommended to add search functionality;
* Prevent 404 pages and if they exist, provide good informational text;
* Make sure your website is mobile-friendly;
* Provide a fast website;
* Prevent choice stress and make it immediately clear by a good call to action (button) where you want to send the visitor to (e.g. reservation, or subscribe to newsletter, etc.);
* Link on your pages to other internal pages;
* And last but not least: provide good interesting content.
