user/pages/05.blog/2017-12-12-working-at-home-or-in-an-office/post.md, before:

---
title: 'Remote team: Working at home or in an office?'
date: '12/12/2017 15:00'
taxonomy:
    tag:
        - workplace
        - 'home office'
        - productivity
slug: working-at-home-or-in-an-office
image: header.jpeg
author:
    name: 'Stephan Moerman'
    bio: 'Chief Technology Officer @ Scope Web'
    image: author-stephan.jpg
    twitter: 'https://www.twitter.com/stmoerman'
cover: workplace.png
postimage: postimage.jpg
navcolor:
    -
        navbar-light bg-light
---

<br>
<br>
The number of freelancers has increased considerably in recent years. Yet it is true that the number of people working from home decreases. But why is that? Research has been done and it seems that more than 70 percent prefer to work in an office space. Freelancers find working in the office generally more pleasant than at home.

Home is the most accessible workplace for freelancers. But does this work in your favor? The step to work in an office might seem big in the beginning and entails extra costs. Nevertheless, it is important not to ignore the opportunities that working in an office bring in the long run. In addition, there are more and more office concepts that are fully or partially focused on freelancers. In these office buildings it is possible to rent a flexible workplace with a flexible term. As a freelancer you are never fixed for the long term. We see this development mainly in office spaces in Amsterdam, Rotterdam and even in smaller cities, such as Den Bosch.


## Working at an office vs. working from home
<br>
Everyone has their own preference. One freelancer performs better at home, while the other prefers to work in the office. It is important to keep your personal preference clearly in mind, to weigh pros and cons and perhaps to choose a combination of both.

## Work flexibly
<br>
Working from home is of course very flexible, but that does not only apply to working from home. With the growth of flexible office concepts, freelancers can more easily rent a workplace. Flexible working hours can, however, be a pitfall for some freelancers. You are responsible for this yourself, whether you work at home or at the office. The office can, however, bring more structure into your working days.

## Working from home
<br>
You have less distraction from colleagues or other freelancers at home. For example, there are fewer sounds around you and people will not try to have a conversation with you at the wrong time. At home, however, there are other distractions. Think of children, television or the laundry that needs to be done. As a home worker you may be susceptible to this danger. Do you have enough discipline to be productive at home?

A big advantage of working from home is that it does not entail extra costs. Renting an office space or a flexible workplace can be a cost item for which you (currently) do not have available budget. Working from home can sometimes be lonely and also limits your daily movement. The average home-working freelancer is therefore heavier than in the office.

![Office noise causes stress](a1-stress.png) {.img-fluid .mb-5}

## Working at an office
<br>
Just like at home, there are also distracting factors in the office that can have a negative effect on your productivity. Office activity can also have a positive effect on productivity. The 'office dynamics' are motivating and inspiring. This activity is particularly noticeable in the co-working spaces of new office concepts.

The coworking spaces are open office spaces where you will typically find freelancers and startups. These spaces are designed to stimulate encounters. In addition, events, workshops or drinks are regularly organized by landlords and tenants. All these benefits outweigh the extra rental costs.

## Finally
<br>
The step often seems bigger than it really is: from working from home to working at an office. Thanks to the beautiful new flexible office concepts, this threshold is getting lower and lower. The lease agreements for a workplace are becoming more and more flexible. Landlords also make it more attractive for freelancers to work in their coworking spaces.

Where do you find your hours to be the most productive? Let me know in the comments below.👇

Commit message:

Fixed Meta Description too long issue and URL too long on blog

user/pages/05.blog/2017-12-12-working-at-home-or-in-an-office/post.md, after:

---
title: 'Remote team: Working at home or in an office?'
date: '12/12/2017 15:00'
metadata:
    description: The number of freelancers has increased considerably in recent years. Yet it is true that the number of people working from home decreases. But why is that? Research has been done and it seems that more than 70 percent prefer to work in an office space. Freelancers find working in the office gene...
taxonomy:
    tag:
        - workplace
        - 'home office'
        - productivity
slug: working-at-home-or-in-an-office
image: header.jpeg
author:
    name: 'Stephan Moerman'
    bio: 'Chief Technology Officer @ Scope Web'
    image: author-stephan.jpg
    twitter: 'https://www.twitter.com/stmoerman'
cover: workplace.png
postimage: postimage.jpg
navcolor:
    -
        navbar-light bg-light
---

<br>
<br>
The number of freelancers has increased considerably in recent years. Yet it is true that the number of people working from home decreases. But why is that? Research has been done and it seems that more than 70 percent prefer to work in an office space. Freelancers find working in the office generally more pleasant than at home.

Home is the most accessible workplace for freelancers. But does this work in your favor? The step to work in an office might seem big in the beginning and entails extra costs. Nevertheless, it is important not to ignore the opportunities that working in an office bring in the long run. In addition, there are more and more office concepts that are fully or partially focused on freelancers. In these office buildings it is possible to rent a flexible workplace with a flexible term. As a freelancer you are never fixed for the long term. We see this development mainly in office spaces in Amsterdam, Rotterdam and even in smaller cities, such as Den Bosch.


## Working at an office vs. working from home
<br>
Everyone has their own preference. One freelancer performs better at home, while the other prefers to work in the office. It is important to keep your personal preference clearly in mind, to weigh pros and cons and perhaps to choose a combination of both.

## Work flexibly
<br>
Working from home is of course very flexible, but that does not only apply to working from home. With the growth of flexible office concepts, freelancers can more easily rent a workplace. Flexible working hours can, however, be a pitfall for some freelancers. You are responsible for this yourself, whether you work at home or at the office. The office can, however, bring more structure into your working days.

## Working from home
<br>
You have less distraction from colleagues or other freelancers at home. For example, there are fewer sounds around you and people will not try to have a conversation with you at the wrong time. At home, however, there are other distractions. Think of children, television or the laundry that needs to be done. As a home worker you may be susceptible to this danger. Do you have enough discipline to be productive at home?

A big advantage of working from home is that it does not entail extra costs. Renting an office space or a flexible workplace can be a cost item for which you (currently) do not have available budget. Working from home can sometimes be lonely and also limits your daily movement. The average home-working freelancer is therefore heavier than in the office.

![Office noise causes stress](a1-stress.png) {.img-fluid .mb-5}

## Working at an office
<br>
Just like at home, there are also distracting factors in the office that can have a negative effect on your productivity. Office activity can also have a positive effect on productivity. The 'office dynamics' are motivating and inspiring. This activity is particularly noticeable in the co-working spaces of new office concepts.

The coworking spaces are open office spaces where you will typically find freelancers and startups. These spaces are designed to stimulate encounters. In addition, events, workshops or drinks are regularly organized by landlords and tenants. All these benefits outweigh the extra rental costs.

## Finally
<br>
The step often seems bigger than it really is: from working from home to working at an office. Thanks to the beautiful new flexible office concepts, this threshold is getting lower and lower. The lease agreements for a workplace are becoming more and more flexible. Landlords also make it more attractive for freelancers to work in their coworking spaces.

Where do you find your hours to be the most productive? Let me know in the comments below.👇
