user/pages/05.blog/2017-12-02-freelancer-5-lifehacks/post.md, before:

---
title: 'Freelancer: 5 productivity lifehacks to improve'
date: '12/02/2017 18:35'
taxonomy:
    tag:
        - freelancing
        - productivity
        - 'life hacks'
slug: freelancer-5-life-hacks
description: 'The freelance productivity or productivity of most freelancers can be improved.'
image: header.jpeg
author:
    name: 'Stephan Moerman'
    bio: 'Chief Technology Officer @ Scope Web'
    image: author-stephan.jpg
    twitter: 'https://www.twitter.com/stmoerman'
cover: mountains.jpg
postimage: postimage.jpg
navcolor:
    -
        navbar-light bg-light
---

# Customers don't knock down your door!
<br>
The freelance productivity or productivity of most freelancers can be improved. Scope Web mainly works with freelancers based in the Netherlands, because we have our headquarters there. We have about one million self-employed people in the Netherlands. More than half of all self-employed people have the idea that it is possible to increase productivity. Of course you can feel low productivity directly in your wallet if you are a freelancer. Nobody is waiting for that. Time to increase freelance productivity! The biggest challenge is sales & acquisition for both freelancers and small to medium sized businesses.

## Calculate and increase productivity
<br>
Increasing productivity as a freelancer is only possible if you know where your productivity is lacking. Actually it is necessary to measure productivity so that you can analyze where things go wrong. You can measure your Freelance productivity by "tracking" each task. Write down how long you should work on something. Do you spend much longer? Then, after completing the task, examine what causes this. Have you been called more often than normal or is it because you are too distracted by social media? Keep this up for one week to calculate your productivity. This way you know to what extent you are dealing with low productivity, so you also know how to increase productivity. The following 5 tips can help you.

![Do not be busy - be productive.](a1-time-management.png) {.img-fluid .mb-5}

## 1. Take care of your mental health
<br>
A strong spirit ensures an increase in productivity. It is therefore important to take good care of your mental health. This often starts with taking good care of your body. Eat healthy and regular, exercise sufficiently, sleep adequately. In addition, it is very important to regularly let go of your thoughts and not be concerned with something in your head. Allow yourself some time to change things, because too much change in a short period of time causes a greater burden on the mind. It is much better to make changes step by step if you want to achieve long-term results.

## 2. Limit social media
<br>
Many freelancers in the Netherlands know that they are actually too busy with social media. Of course you need the social channels as a marketing tool, but it is certainly not necessary to check all your accounts every 15 minutes (or more often). Many freelancers in the Netherlands are younger than 35 and experience the most stress from social media. Stress is at the expense of your productivity, so limit the social media activities. The same applies to the e-mail. On average, freelancers working on a computer go to the mailbox 36 times per hour. Unnecessary! Customers do not expect you to respond within a minute. Read our tips for effective e-mail management in our upcoming newsletter for new insights by subscribing to our newsletter.

## 3. Discover your productivity peak
<br>
Everyone has a productivity peak, but this time window is different for everyone, it is really something that you have to discover individually. Discover when you experience the peak in productivity and plan your day so that you can make the most use of it. Are you a morning person, an afternoon person or an evening person? You can increase productivity by making smart use of your 'prime time'. You can easily meet deadlines and you have more rest when you are not at work.

## 4. Plan your breaks
<br>
As a freelancer, you naturally want to do as much work as possible. You want to be as productive as possible. Many freelancers in the Netherlands therefore take breaks, particularly from the idea that they have done more at the end of the day. Nothing is less true. Low productivity is often caused by long breaks. Plan your breaks because they are the key to productivity! Organizing your time better does not always have to do with completing tasks. Often it is especially necessary to organize your time better to take your moments of rest. You will see that you can complete all tasks more easily.

## 5. Attention to ergonomics
<br>
Many freelancers who work at home with a laptop tend to sit on the couch all day with the laptop. Nice of course, but it is certainly not good for productivity. You work in the same room in which you relax. Work and private life must remain separate. You need a productive home workplace, with few incentives around you and cool colors to promote effective thinking.

## What are you waiting for?
<br>
Do you want to increase your productivity as a freelancer? Then you also need to pay attention to time management. There are many great books, online courses and tutorials available for free. Let us know how you've improved in terms of productivity in a comment under this article 😊 Are you on Twitter? We of course also! [Say hello](https://twitter.com/scopewebnyc) and let us know what you want to read about.

Did you know that our [founder](https://www.twitter.com/stmoerman) keeps a repository with useful resources for freelancers? [Check it out on GitHub](https://www.github.com/stmoerman/freelance-kickstart)

Commit message:

Truncated meta description to 300 characters for every blog post

user/pages/05.blog/2017-12-02-freelancer-5-lifehacks/post.md, after:

---
title: 'Freelancer: 5 productivity lifehacks to improve'
date: '12/02/2017 18:35'
metadata:
    description: The freelance productivity or productivity of most freelancers can be improved. Scope Web mainly works with freelancers based in the Netherlands, because we have our headquarters there. We have about one million self-employed people in the Netherlands. More than half of all self-employed people h...
taxonomy:
    tag:
        - freelancing
        - productivity
        - 'life hacks'
slug: freelancer-5-life-hacks
description: 'The freelance productivity or productivity of most freelancers can be improved.'
image: header.jpeg
author:
    name: 'Stephan Moerman'
    bio: 'Chief Technology Officer @ Scope Web'
    image: author-stephan.jpg
    twitter: 'https://www.twitter.com/stmoerman'
cover: mountains.jpg
postimage: postimage.jpg
navcolor:
    -
        navbar-light bg-light
---

# Customers don't knock down your door!
<br>
The freelance productivity or productivity of most freelancers can be improved. Scope Web mainly works with freelancers based in the Netherlands, because we have our headquarters there. We have about one million self-employed people in the Netherlands. More than half of all self-employed people have the idea that it is possible to increase productivity. Of course you can feel low productivity directly in your wallet if you are a freelancer. Nobody is waiting for that. Time to increase freelance productivity! The biggest challenge is sales & acquisition for both freelancers and small to medium sized businesses.

## Calculate and increase productivity
<br>
Increasing productivity as a freelancer is only possible if you know where your productivity is lacking. Actually it is necessary to measure productivity so that you can analyze where things go wrong. You can measure your Freelance productivity by "tracking" each task. Write down how long you should work on something. Do you spend much longer? Then, after completing the task, examine what causes this. Have you been called more often than normal or is it because you are too distracted by social media? Keep this up for one week to calculate your productivity. This way you know to what extent you are dealing with low productivity, so you also know how to increase productivity. The following 5 tips can help you.

![Do not be busy - be productive.](a1-time-management.png) {.img-fluid .mb-5}

## 1. Take care of your mental health
<br>
A strong spirit ensures an increase in productivity. It is therefore important to take good care of your mental health. This often starts with taking good care of your body. Eat healthy and regular, exercise sufficiently, sleep adequately. In addition, it is very important to regularly let go of your thoughts and not be concerned with something in your head. Allow yourself some time to change things, because too much change in a short period of time causes a greater burden on the mind. It is much better to make changes step by step if you want to achieve long-term results.

## 2. Limit social media
<br>
Many freelancers in the Netherlands know that they are actually too busy with social media. Of course you need the social channels as a marketing tool, but it is certainly not necessary to check all your accounts every 15 minutes (or more often). Many freelancers in the Netherlands are younger than 35 and experience the most stress from social media. Stress is at the expense of your productivity, so limit the social media activities. The same applies to the e-mail. On average, freelancers working on a computer go to the mailbox 36 times per hour. Unnecessary! Customers do not expect you to respond within a minute. Read our tips for effective e-mail management in our upcoming newsletter for new insights by subscribing to our newsletter.

## 3. Discover your productivity peak
<br>
Everyone has a productivity peak, but this time window is different for everyone, it is really something that you have to discover individually. Discover when you experience the peak in productivity and plan your day so that you can make the most use of it. Are you a morning person, an afternoon person or an evening person? You can increase productivity by making smart use of your 'prime time'. You can easily meet deadlines and you have more rest when you are not at work.

## 4. Plan your breaks
<br>
As a freelancer, you naturally want to do as much work as possible. You want to be as productive as possible. Many freelancers in the Netherlands therefore take breaks, particularly from the idea that they have done more at the end of the day. Nothing is less true. Low productivity is often caused by long breaks. Plan your breaks because they are the key to productivity! Organizing your time better does not always have to do with completing tasks. Often it is especially necessary to organize your time better to take your moments of rest. You will see that you can complete all tasks more easily.

## 5. Attention to ergonomics
<br>
Many freelancers who work at home with a laptop tend to sit on the couch all day with the laptop. Nice of course, but it is certainly not good for productivity. You work in the same room in which you relax. Work and private life must remain separate. You need a productive home workplace, with few incentives around you and cool colors to promote effective thinking.

## What are you waiting for?
<br>
Do you want to increase your productivity as a freelancer? Then you also need to pay attention to time management. There are many great books, online courses and tutorials available for free. Let us know how you've improved in terms of productivity in a comment under this article 😊 Are you on Twitter? We of course also! [Say hello](https://twitter.com/scopewebnyc) and let us know what you want to read about.

Did you know that our [founder](https://www.twitter.com/stmoerman) keeps a repository with useful resources for freelancers? [Check it out on GitHub](https://www.github.com/stmoerman/freelance-kickstart)
