user/pages/05.blog/2018-09-03-with-this-secret-you-will-be-more-visible-in-google/post.md, before:

---
title: 'With this secret you will be easier to find in Google'
date: '09/03/2018 06:13'
taxonomy:
    tag:
        - SEO
        - marketing
        - Google
slug: with-this-secret-you-will-be-more-visible-in-google
description: 'Are you actively working on your findability in Google? Then you will undoubtedly know what SEO means. The goal of SEO is to create content that matches keywords that people type into the search engine. For example, if someone is looking for "the advantages of electric driving", then you want your page ...'
image: search.jpg
author:
    name: 'Scope Web'
    image: author-scopeweb.jpg
    twitter: 'https://www.twitter.com/scopewebnyc'
cover: seo.png
postimage: seo-header.jpg
navcolor:
    -
        navbar-light bg-light
---

<div class="mb-3"></div>
Are you actively working on your findability in Google? Then you will undoubtedly know what SEO means. The goal of SEO is to create content that matches keywords that people enter into their searches through a search engine. For example, if someone searches for 'the advantages of electric driving', then you want your page to offer the most relevant answer. However, there is another factor that determines your success in SEO. And that is by no means known to everyone ...
<div class="mb-5"></div>

## What is SEO? First a brief explanation
<div class="mb-3"></div>
Before we dive deeper into this growth hack, however, it seems good to first explain the basics of SEO a bit further. Google wants to remain the best search engine in the world and that means that they place the pages that best match the user's query at the top of the search results. To remain the best, they have to offer the most relevant content. To determine which content is relevant, Google 'crawls' over the internet and searches for criteria that match specific searches. All kinds of factors play a role in this. For example, think of:

-	Headings (H1, H2, H3, etc.)
-	Relevant multimedia
-	Word count
-	Link building
-	Relevant keywords
-	‘Clean’ code
-	User friendly design
-	Internal link structure
-	Etc…

The most important thing, however, is to provide relevant and complete information. A good way to measure this is to study the statistics in Google Analytics. Think for example of the bounce rate and the time people spend on the page. Does the user stay on a page for an average of 4 minutes and the bounce is lower than 50%? Then you can assume that your page matches the search query of the user.

We now know that the success of your SEO page depends on technology, user friendliness and relevance. In user-friendliness, you should primarily think of a logical setup, use of multimedia, interactive design and buttons that lead to other relevant pages, such as a contact or project page.

<div class="mb-5"></div>

## With this secret you give your SEO plan lift-off
<div class="mb-3"></div>
Unless you use Google Adwords Search campaigns (SEA), there is no short path to good findability in Google. All your competitors compete for that first page. And they all use professionals to win the findability battle. It can even take months for your SEO pages to bear fruit and come high in Google. And this depends not only on the quality of your page, but also on the degree of competition you have.

![Google ranking greatly impacts the performance of your business](google-search.jpeg) {.img-fluid .img-center .mb-5 .mt-5}

First and foremost, let me emphasize that it is always a good idea to both advertise on keywords and to boost them organically through SEO. You are never as powerful as when you combine SEO and SEA.

Although a good ranking sometimes costs Google months of effort, there is a way to speed up this process and make it more sustainable. In other words: you rise faster in Google and you ensure that these results have a lasting and stable character.

The secret is a marketing term that you have undoubtedly heard before: _branding_. In other words: the awareness for your _brand_ on the web. Data research shows that the growth of your online brand exerts a positive influence on the ranking of your SEO pages, even if they are 'non-branded'. It is therefore about all the pages that you have written with a view to search engine optimization.

The popularity of your _brand_ on the web plays a major role in the sustainability of your position in Google. Is your _branding_ falling? Then your success in SEO will also decrease. Does your _branding_ rise, resulting in more people googling your brand name? Then your success in SEO will increase.

By constantly working on your _branding_ strategy and your positioning on the web, you not only generate more _brand_ awareness among your target group, but also improve your overall visibility in Google.
<div class="mb-5"></div>

## Do you want to score points with your branding and SEO strategy?
<div class="mb-3"></div>
![Start scoring massive points with your branding and SEO strategy](seo-scoring-points.jpeg) {.img-fluid .img-center .mb-5 .mt-5}

Do you want to know how to raise your branding to a higher level? And how do you not only generate increasing awareness for your brand or company, but also find it easier to find in Google? Then my colleagues and I will gladly help you further. As online marketers, we know everything about branding strategy and are happy to help you improve your findability.

<div class="row align-items-center justify-content-center">
    <div class="align-items-center">
        <div class="mt-5">
            <a href="/contact" class="btn btn-info btn-circle btn-translate--hover mr-4" id="gtm-sophome">Contact us</a>
        </div>
    </div>
</div>

Commit message:

Fixed Meta Description too long issue and URL too long on blog

user/pages/05.blog/2018-09-03-with-this-secret-you-will-be-more-visible-in-google/post.md, after:

---
title: 'With this secret you will be easier to find in Google'
date: '09/03/2018 06:13'
metadata:
    description: Are you actively working on your findability in Google? Then you will undoubtedly know what SEO means. The goal of SEO is to create content that matches keywords that people enter into their searches through a search engine. For example, if someone searches for 'the advantages of electric driving...
taxonomy:
    tag:
        - SEO
        - marketing
        - Google
slug: more-google-visibility-tricks
description: 'Are you actively working on your findability in Google? Then you will undoubtedly know what SEO means. The goal of SEO is to create content that matches keywords that people type into the search engine. For example, if someone is looking for "the advantages of electric driving", then you want your page ...'
image: search.jpg
author:
    name: 'Scope Web'
    image: author-scopeweb.jpg
    twitter: 'https://www.twitter.com/scopewebnyc'
cover: seo.png
postimage: seo-header.jpg
navcolor:
    -
        navbar-light bg-light
---

<div class="mb-3"></div>
Are you actively working on your findability in Google? Then you will undoubtedly know what SEO means. The goal of SEO is to create content that matches keywords that people enter into their searches through a search engine. For example, if someone searches for 'the advantages of electric driving', then you want your page to offer the most relevant answer. However, there is another factor that determines your success in SEO. And that is by no means known to everyone ...
<div class="mb-5"></div>

## What is SEO? First a brief explanation
<div class="mb-3"></div>
Before we dive deeper into this growth hack, however, it seems good to first explain the basics of SEO a bit further. Google wants to remain the best search engine in the world and that means that they place the pages that best match the user's query at the top of the search results. To remain the best, they have to offer the most relevant content. To determine which content is relevant, Google 'crawls' over the internet and searches for criteria that match specific searches. All kinds of factors play a role in this. For example, think of:

-	Headings (H1, H2, H3, etc.)
-	Relevant multimedia
-	Word count
-	Link building
-	Relevant keywords
-	‘Clean’ code
-	User friendly design
-	Internal link structure
-	Etc…

The most important thing, however, is to provide relevant and complete information. A good way to measure this is to study the statistics in Google Analytics. Think for example of the bounce rate and the time people spend on the page. Does the user stay on a page for an average of 4 minutes and the bounce is lower than 50%? Then you can assume that your page matches the search query of the user.

We now know that the success of your SEO page depends on technology, user friendliness and relevance. In user-friendliness, you should primarily think of a logical setup, use of multimedia, interactive design and buttons that lead to other relevant pages, such as a contact or project page.

<div class="mb-5"></div>

## With this secret you give your SEO plan lift-off
<div class="mb-3"></div>
Unless you use Google Adwords Search campaigns (SEA), there is no short path to good findability in Google. All your competitors compete for that first page. And they all use professionals to win the findability battle. It can even take months for your SEO pages to bear fruit and come high in Google. And this depends not only on the quality of your page, but also on the degree of competition you have.

![Google ranking greatly impacts the performance of your business](google-search.jpeg) {.img-fluid .img-center .mb-5 .mt-5}

First and foremost, let me emphasize that it is always a good idea to both advertise on keywords and to boost them organically through SEO. You are never as powerful as when you combine SEO and SEA.

Although a good ranking sometimes costs Google months of effort, there is a way to speed up this process and make it more sustainable. In other words: you rise faster in Google and you ensure that these results have a lasting and stable character.

The secret is a marketing term that you have undoubtedly heard before: _branding_. In other words: the awareness for your _brand_ on the web. Data research shows that the growth of your online brand exerts a positive influence on the ranking of your SEO pages, even if they are 'non-branded'. It is therefore about all the pages that you have written with a view to search engine optimization.

The popularity of your _brand_ on the web plays a major role in the sustainability of your position in Google. Is your _branding_ falling? Then your success in SEO will also decrease. Does your _branding_ rise, resulting in more people googling your brand name? Then your success in SEO will increase.

By constantly working on your _branding_ strategy and your positioning on the web, you not only generate more _brand_ awareness among your target group, but also improve your overall visibility in Google.
<div class="mb-5"></div>

## Do you want to score points with your branding and SEO strategy?
<div class="mb-3"></div>
![Start scoring massive points with your branding and SEO strategy](seo-scoring-points.jpeg) {.img-fluid .img-center .mb-5 .mt-5}

Do you want to know how to raise your branding to a higher level? And how do you not only generate increasing awareness for your brand or company, but also find it easier to find in Google? Then my colleagues and I will gladly help you further. As online marketers, we know everything about branding strategy and are happy to help you improve your findability.

<div class="row align-items-center justify-content-center">
    <div class="align-items-center">
        <div class="mt-5">
            <a href="/contact" class="btn btn-info btn-circle btn-translate--hover mr-4" id="gtm-sophome">Contact us</a>
        </div>
    </div>
</div>
